If you have multiple interests and you
don't know how to manage them or you
don't know what options there are for
you in the future, then I have good news
for you because this is the greatest
time to be alive. But in lies the
problem. Society has made you feel like
having multiple interests is a weakness.
We all know the story, right? You go to
school, you get a job, you retire at
some point, but there is so much wrong
with that series of events. I feel like
a lot of people fail to understand that
we don't live in the industrial age
anymore, but we are still dealing with
its consequences. Specializing in only
one skill is certain death. And I feel
like we all know by now how dangerous
mechanical living is for the psyche and
soul. It's not meaningful. Right? We've
made productivity our god and that god
has betrayed us. And I also think that
people feel that we are going through a
second renaissance. So, you're very
excited, right? You have multiple
interests. You're like, "Oh, okay. How
do I actually make the most of this? I
see people online and they're doing
these cool things. I get to listen to
people who talk about my interests, but
how do I do something similar?" You have
to understand that your curiosity and
love for learning is not a weakness. It
is a massive advantage. You just need to
learn what to do with it. And I felt the
same way for the longest time. I would
just learn and learn and learn and watch
tutorials, get stuck in tutorial hell. I
would see people online say to avoid
shiny object syndrome and I'd be like,
damn, I'm right in the middle of that. I
need to change what I'm doing. I need to
focus on one thing. And I got my
dopamine from feeling smart. But when I
looked back at my life, I didn't really
have anything to show for it. I felt
smart. I couldn't articulate anything
that I remembered. But my life didn't
change all that much. And honestly, I
just felt like I was falling behind. In
college, I tried so many different
things because I always had this dream
of doing something creative, but I was
going to college and if college ended
and I didn't have a creative income
source, then I would have to get a job.
And so it's like I need to figure out
what I need to do now. And so I just
experimented with a bunch of different
things, but I didn't stick to one thing.
And so that's what happened. 5 years
into college, one more year than I was
supposed to go, I had to get a job
because I just needed to survive, right?
I needed money. But the missing piece
for me that I'm guessing is a missing
piece for you was a vessel. A vessel, a
way to channel your multiple interests
into one thing. Right? That's not what
people consider a specialist to be.
That's more of a generalist. Right? The
let's say the definition of a generalist
is someone who has an aim for their
life. They have a desired outcome. They
have a future they want to achieve and
they do all of the things required to
achieve that. We're going to dig deeper
into this, but that's such a huge
insight that you may not understand yet.
In other words, I needed to do something
that could generate an income so that I
could survive, but it umbrellaed all of
my interests into it. So, if you've ever
felt guilty for not being able to pick
one thing, if you've been told to niche
down when your mind wants to expand, if
you've wondered whether there's a path
you can take that doesn't lead to the
misery you see in everyone else's eyes,
this is the greatest time to be alive.
So, here are the seven most compelling
and practical ideas that I came up with
for people with multiple interests.
We'll start by understanding why having
multiple interests is a superpower,
which is very important. And then I'll
give you the practical steps, kind of
hyper practical. This is kind of like a
full course on how to turn those into
your life's work. And this will
especially make sense in my next video
called the future of work, which is just
going to be a huge synthesis of all the
research I've done on what the future
could look like with AI, AGI, etc. I
think you'll like that, especially if
you're a creative. So, we have a lot to
talk about. I hope you're here for the
ride. If you're not, just save this to
watch later so it pops up again or
something so you don't forget about it.
So the first idea, we're going to talk
about the three ingredients of
individual success and the death of the
expert. And we'll start with a quote
from Adam Smith who had a huge influence
on the birth of capitalism. Well, we'll
talk about that in a bit, but the quote
is the man whose whole life is spent in
performing a few simple operations
generally becomes as stupid and ignorant
as it is possible for a human creature
to become. So, it's funny that he says
that because industrial age, capitalism,
free markets, employment, etc. I'm not
against capitalism. I think it's going
to evolve into something better
hopefully. But it's funny that he says
that because he's the one who
contributed to it, if not created it.
So, specialization took over because in
a pin factory, for example, this
happened across many different types of
factories and lines of work, one worker
doing every step could produce 20 pins a
day. And then many workers each doing
one step rather than every step could
produce 48,000.
So we built an entire world around this
model. We just siloed people into doing
individual repetitive robotic tasks. And
you can wonder why we're at threat of
replacement from robots right now. It's
because humans became assembly lines
working 9-to-five jobs. And this
happened because frankly governments
don't serve the national interest, the
interest of the people. they serve their
own interest. So the opposite of
capitalism also isn't the answer. But
the same thing applies here to
corporations. The corporations don't
serve the employees interest. They serve
their own. And their own interest is
profit. And since that starts to form
the base of the economy and just the
general culture of the US or the west,
then schools were also designed to serve
that interest. Their sole purpose was to
create factory workers who were
obedient. and the school system hasn't
changed much. So if you want to have
specialized knowledge so that you could
never run an operation, especially your
own operation, then be dependent on
schools for your education and jobs for
your wage. Be duped into believing that
specialization is what makes a human
valuable when it is clear that the
system does not need you specifically to
perform that task. So in lies the
distinction. If specialization makes
people stupid, then what makes someone
free? What makes someone sovereign? And
there's three ingredients.
Self-education, self-interest, and
self-sufficiency. So self-education is
pretty clear. If you want a different
result from the one that traditional
education promises, then you must direct
your own learning. Now, self-interest
raises some flags because it sounds
selfish and short-sighted, right?
Everyone should be selfless. That's what
you've been told. But self-interest
simply means concerned with one's own
interest. And if that isn't a priority
for you, then whose interest are you
going to serve? Especially when your
survival is dependent on it, you're
going to serve the interest of the
schools, the jobs, and the government.
And those interests are not very
beneficial to you. In other words, you
need to follow your own interest because
your interest is often beneficial to
others. And of course, this depends on
what level of cognitive development that
you're at. But I would assume that most
people don't want to hurt most people.
And I would assume that in the culture
and day and age that we live in, most
people are beyond that. And an objection
or argument here is that well if I were
if people just served their own interest
then they would just be scrolling on
their phones all day and and indulging
in cheap pleasures and dopamine and
gambling and all this other stuff. But
take take a second and look whose
interest does that actually serve. That
is usually not your actual interest but
an interest that you have become
addicted to or an interest that's been
assigned to you. And that's usually
comes from the corporations who actually
own the social media companies that
you're scrolling on each and every day
getting sucked into the algorithm and
not curating or being intentional about
your own feed. And I'll let you think
through the rest. Now, the truly selfish
person in Einran's view is a
self-respecting self-supporting human
being who neither sacrifices others to
himself nor sacrifices himself to
others. This rejects both the predator
and the doormat. So that's self-interest
and now self-sufficiency the last
ingredient is the refusal to outsource
your judgment, your learning and your
agency. So if self-education is the
engine and self-interest is the compass,
then self-sufficiency is the foundation
that prevents your life direction from
being hijacked. So the generalist
naturally must emerge. Someone with
multiple interests must emerge if they
fit into this triad or they develop this
triad of traits because self-interest
motivates self-education. You learn
things because it genuinely improves
your life. You're not assigned to learn
things for the interest of the system
that you're within. And then
self-education enables self-sufficiency
because you can only be as sovereign as
the domains you understand. And if
you're a specialist, you you only
understand one domain. There's a reason
you can't run the entire operation and
why you're kept dumb to that and you're
kept siloed because actually think about
it. If you knew how to run the entire
company, it was very clear to you, you
understood it, you knew how to do it,
then why wouldn't you do that? And last,
that self-sufficiency clarifies your
self-interest. So, it's like a cycle.
It's it's a triad, but it's also a cycle
because when you're not dependent on
others interpretations, you can actually
perceive what serves you. Most people
pursue multiple interests as an escape
from their work. But when your interests
become your work or your life's work,
most of them start to filter out. So you
think you have all of these uh interests
that may not lead to something
beneficial monetarily or in terms of
money. But once you actually get on the
path, when work turns into play for you,
then you tend to drop the interest that
just served as an escape and you really
start to focus in and clarify what you
want out of life. So you may have too
many interests right now, but once you
actually start to get on the right path
as we're going to discuss, they will
become so much more clear. That is the
best way to manage multiple interests. I
see these videos on how to manage
multiple interests from accounts that I
like. Odysius, I love you. But I don't
think those people are on the right
track. I don't think creating a a
note-taking system as someone with a
note-taking software, I don't think
creating the note-taking system to
manage all of these notes and other
things that don't serve any higher goal
in your life, even if it's not directly
tied to money. But if money is a
currency of agency, expressing your
agency, then money is important because
that allows you to discover something
more meaningful and to choose that
meaningful thing over the options that
are available to you right now. in a
culture that glorifies productivity as
God. So to prevent a rant, let's get
back on track. When you look at every
CEO or creative or founder, they're
almost always a generalist, even if it
doesn't seem like it on the surface,
because they understand enough about
marketing to direct it, enough about
product to build it, and enough about
people to lead them. But they also need
to direct the ship. They need to learn
and adapt when circumstances change.
Meaning, they have to learn a lot, and
they have to go very broad. They can't
go too deep on one thing aside from
their company. But that has its own
benefits. It has the benefit of creating
your own unique model of the world, your
own unique way of viewing the world.
Because ideas that cross into different
domains, they complement each other. And
that unique way of viewing the world
allows you to catch and see ideas and
opportunities that other people wouldn't
see. So it's harder to replicate until
you actually put in the work of building
it. And then someone can try to
replicate it, but they don't they still
don't have the unique way of viewing the
world. They still don't have all of the
intersections of ideas that led to the
specific decision-making that you made.
So you are much more likely to succeed
than them. That leads into idea number
two, which is that you are living
through the second renaissance and you
need to take advantage of it. So another
quote from Da Vinci, study the science
of art, study the art of science,
develop your senses, especially learn
how to see. Realize that everything
connects to everything else. The
ultimate moat or the final competitive
advantage worth paying for in my opinion
is an opinion. It is a perspective that
only you can see because the uniqueness
of your life experience created it. That
may just be the last thing anyone else
can replicate. And since that's always
been the case, that's always been the
case. You have to understand that. That
has always been the case. Why not
prioritize it now? Especially when
automation is at your doorstep. This is
like forcing everyone to prioritize the
one thing that has mattered and will
matter. But how do you prioritize it?
How do you develop it? By pursuing
multiple interests and building
something with them. Actually, it's the
reverse. By building something useful
and learning the multiple interests that
you have to learn because every interest
you've ever pursued leaves behind a
residue. Every interest increases the
number of connections that can be made.
Every interest expands and increases the
complexity of how you model and
interpret reality. And the more complex
your model of reality, the more problems
you can solve, opportunities you can
see, and value you can create.
Specialism completely halts this
process. And your shiny object syndrome
has been trying to tell you this whole
time from birth until now. Just think of
how complex that is, right? We take
advantage of just every single passing
moment, every single thing that's
happened to us. All of the billions upon
billions of bits of information that our
mind has processed in our own unique
location, situation, culture from the
bottom up. There's so many different
things influencing how we see the world
throughout from birth until now. You
have cultivated a way of seeing things
that others cannot access. AI cannot
think this way until you tell AI to
think that way. So, a person who studied
psychology and design sees user behavior
differently from a pure designer. Now,
imagine if they tacked on something else
to that aside from just psychology and
design. A person who learns sales and
philosophy closes deals differently than
the pure salesman. A person who
understands fitness and business builds
health companies that MBAs can't
understand. And if you really think
about it, this is the exact pattern that
showed in the Renaissance and what
allowed individuals to flourish. So we
have to consider what made that possible
and see if that shows up today, which it
does. So before the printing press,
knowledge was scarce. Books were copied
by hand and a single text could take a
scribe months to reproduce. Libraries
were very rare and literacy was rarer.
If you wanted to learn something outside
of your trade, you either had access to
a monastery or you didn't learn that
thing. And then Gutenberg changed
everything. So within 50 years, 20
million books flooded Europe. Ideas that
once took generations to spread now
moved in months. Literacy exploded. The
cost of knowledge collapsed. For the
first time in history, a person could
realistically pursue multiple domains of
mastery in a single lifetime. And the
renaissance was the result. So whenever
someone compares this to AI, they say,
"Oh, well, it's not the same, and AI
does so much more." But the pattern is
still there. There is still something
there. And I don't think anyone has
figured out what the future is going to
look like yet because it's just
prediction. It's speculation. It's
imaginary. So, it's worthwhile to at
least hold these ideas in your mind
without accepting them as truth, but
potentially pursuing them or utilizing
these ideas because they can be useful
to your life right now and probably
going into the future. It's better than
doing nothing. When we look at Da Vinci,
he didn't just do one thing. He painted,
sculpted, engineered, studied anatomy,
designed war machines, and mapped the
human body. Michelangelo was a painter,
sculptor, architect, and poet. So, in
today's world, unique minds are finally
able to operate the way they were meant
to. They were supposed to cross
disciplines, synthesize connections, and
follow curiosity wherever it led. The
printing press was a catalyst for a new
type of person to emerge. A person who
could learn anything, combine everything
and create something that no specialist
ever could. And this is happening again.
So idea number three, how to turn
multiple interests into a lucrative way
of life. So as a recap, there are a few
things that we know so far. You have
multiple interests but feel like you
can't keep learning forever. You have a
love for interestbased self-education
but have to carve out time outside of
your career to do it. You understand the
need to become self-sufficient, but you
feel like you don't have value worth
paying for yet. And you need to be able
to adapt fast because we don't know what
the future looks like. So the question
then is how do we combine all of these
things or all of our interests into a
way of life? Not a way of work life
balance, but a complete way of life, a
way of turning work into play. So I'll
try to make this as logical as I can and
just boom boom boom tie these things
together. To make money from your
interests, you need other people to
become interested in them too. That part
is trivial because if you became
interested in something, other people
can too. You simply must learn to
persuade. So skill to learn right there.
Persuasion. Just read a few books on
persuasion and it'll naturally catch on
if you are creating something. With
that, you need a way for these people to
pay you. In this context, that usually
means you need to sell a product because
you probably aren't going to find a job
that allows you to express your
interest. And investing in stocks or
real estate to any effective degree
requires a good amount of capital. So in
other words, you need attention.
Attention is one of the blast modes
because it's very scarce. Scarcity is
going to survive, right? AGI can't make
attention a commodity, right? It can
provide uh maybe in the future a basic
foundation for survival, right? We don't
have to worry about survival anymore.
The the things that we see as scarce
right now, a lot of the things will
become commodities, but our attention,
there's only so much to go around. So,
what's worth paying for in the future?
And as a creative, you may be surprised
to hear this, but it's creative work.
Stop worrying about AI copying your
image or copying your writing. We'll
talk about this more in I think it's the
next video. Just think about it. If
anyone can write anything or build
anything or create anything like we're
hearing right now, especially if you're
on Twitter, it's freaking everywhere.
And I I don't disagree with them.
Anyone's going to be able to create
anything. Which ones are going to win?
It's going to be the ones that people
know about. It's the ones that people
pay attention to because you can have
the greatest product in the world. You
can have your greatest little mobile app
or SAS app, but if nobody knows about
it, it just ends up like every single
other product or SAS app that's been
created in the past that nobody knows
about. It just doesn't go anywhere. You
you didn't waste your time. You learned
some stuff maybe, but you're missing a
piece of the puzzle. It's never only
just been build this thing. It's so much
more than that. And the other thing here
is just opinionated work. Opinionated
creative work. Would you rather use this
vibecoded SAS app like a a Dropbox
alternative that isn't being maintained
by a large team of people that can
handle billions of users? Are you even
going to trust that with your do you
even understand the software space? I
didn't until I started building
something like a Dropbox alternative
with my team. But you're acting like
people care a ton about the money that
they spend on a useful solution in their
life and like they even want to build
that thing. I mean, you don't even spend
20 minutes cooking your own food every
day for health and nutrition. You pay 20
to 30 bucks for Uber Eats to deliver you
food. Humans just want convenience on so
many different levels. And like people
are blowing this way out of proportion
as to what's going to happen. People
have more things that they want to spend
their time on. Not everyone in the world
just wants to be inside of clawed code
building what like whatever suits their
needs that day. Some people will, of
course, but not even close to everyone.
So, back to the point. You need to
become a creator. Now, before you cringe
and leave, I don't necessarily mean
become a content creator, even though I
kind of do, but let's just unpack that.
I mean that the solution to stop
creating for someone else because you
need them to give you a paycheck is to
create for yourself. Humans by nature
are creators who were convinced that
being a machine would lead to the
American dream. We are toolbuilders at
our core. We thrive in any niche because
we create solutions to problems. If a
lion were put in Alaska, it would not
build shelter and clothing. It would
die. A lion belongs in its own niche. We
don't belong in one niche. Everyone's
telling you to niche down when everyone
lives in a separate freaking niche
across the world. It doesn't make sense.
Now the second thing is that every
business is a media business right now.
And remember you need attention. How do
you generate attention? Media. Where is
media? Where is attention? Social media.
And that's at least right now. Things
evolve, right? Social media platforms
may not last forever, but something's
going to take their place. And of
course, you're going to have to adapt at
that point. So yes, if you have multiple
interests, it would be wise in my
opinion. And I don't want to just give a
blanket prescription to everyone, but
it's so unique. It you should probably
become a content creator, but you you
also have to really think through how
saturation just does not exist in this
way. There's no saturation in you
meeting people in real life, right?
There's there's a certain amount of
people that you can have as close
friends. There's less people that you
can have as friends. I mean, more people
that you can have as friends. And then
there's more people you can have as
acquaintances. There's more people that
you can have as people you've met
before. And if you think of your
consumption habits, you probably skim
past hundreds of posts a day,
potentially more. What about long form,
which takes longer to create, meaning
that that decreases saturation even
more? You maybe read one a day, two a
day? How many YouTube videos do you
watch a day? Four, five? That's a lot of
attention to go around. And how many
videos do you skip? How many social
posts do you skip? That just shows that
there's an attention deficit. Not that
your attention should just be in front
of a screen all day, but also most of
what you consume just sucks, right? It's
not good content. It's not beneficial to
you. It's not helping you learn. It's
not providing anything meaningful.
There's a massive deficit of valuable
and beneficial and useful content
because just look at your screen. Look
at what you're consuming every day.
There's maybe one or two things, if
that, that actually change your life.
not that you need to change your life
all the time that are actually
beneficial to you. Now, if you don't
like the idea of becoming a content
creator, just think of social media as a
mechanism to do independent work.
Because when we think about that, that
covers all of our bases. If you love
learning, great. Reframe it as research.
And now that's literally your main job.
Most of the things I write about simply
come from me learning about my interests
and treating social media like I'm
taking notes in public. So, you're
already spending time learning. Now,
just spend that time learning in public
and boom, you have the foundation of a
business. If you need to become
self-sufficient, well, you need a
business to do that and every business
needs to attract customers. And you
probably don't give two [__] about paid
ads, SEO, or any other form of
marketing. This is what trips many
people up because they are only used to
doing one specialized task within a
business as an employee. If you need to
be able to adapt going to the future,
which you do, then amazing. You can
build and launch new products to your
audience as fast as you can build them.
I personally have a pretty solid
audience. And if my next product were to
fail, I have people who would be willing
to invest or work on the team or even
just support the next product. It's not
just one and done. You don't just bust
your entire load in one go on one launch
and if it fails then oh, you're done. It
doesn't even cost you money to post
content. If you're just Yeah, if you
blew your life savings on paid ads, then
maybe you're at a dead end. But this is
different and it goes back to the point
of you can build your little vibe coded
SAS company and it may be very valuable.
I'm not denying that they can be
valuable. But if you don't have
distribution or an audience, then you're
going to be putting in like a marathon's
worth of effort into getting capital for
it, into getting customers or users,
into finding talent and everything else
that goes into building the business. So
my point is that no other job or career
or path allows people with multiple
interests to do all of those things. So
how do you actually start building it?
Where's the practicality, Dan? What are
the actionable steps? I get it. Okay.
Idea number four, how to turn yourself
into a business. Now some of you have
probably seen this graphic before on the
oneperson business. I have an entire
oneperson business playlist, but this
has one less thing, right? So the three
pillars which used to be four pillars of
a oneperson business are brand, content
and product. But how those differ from
the traditional business is that your
brand are your goals. So what do you
want out of life? And then for brand
what are you helping people achieve? For
content or media or how you attract
people to that brand that is knowledge.
So what are you learning along the way
and what is useful for them to know?
Then for product, which is process, how
did you reach a desirable goal and how
can you help them reach it faster? So,
let's break these down. But first, I'm
talking to my younger self here. I'm
talking to my younger self who was very,
I guess, conditioned, very programmed to
have a negative outlook on money, a
negative outlook on business, all these
other things. And it's really
unfortunate that the words
entrepreneurship and business have
become kind of like dirty words that
once someone hears them, they just shut
off. It's like, "No, I don't want to do
that. No, that's for unethical people.
That's for talented people. I'm not that
talented. That's for people with a lot
of money." When that's that's just not
the case on any grounds. The danger in
doing that and closing your mind off to
it is that you're just closing your mind
off to the thing that could change your
life. you're closing your mind off to
the opportunities. You're not able to
see them if you reject the idea that
allows you to see them. So my rebuttal
to that is if you've ever helped anyone
with any of your interests in any way,
then you are qualified to start a
business. It doesn't need to go any
further than that. And the reality is
that entrepreneurship is in our nature.
It is modern survival. We are wired to
create and distribute value to a tribe
of like-minded people. Now that tribe is
on the internet and you have to find
them or attract them. We are wired to
hunt to explore the unknown to seek
novelty and never stagnate and
psychologically this is the most
enjoyable way of life. We've talked
about that before but if you study
psychology and flow psychology you will
understand that. And even further the
barrier of entry has collapsed. I'm not
saying it's easy. I'm not saying that
you're just going to be able to go and
talk to AI and have it spit out 30 posts
and then you post them to social media
and instantly go viral and instantly see
millions of dollars. No, it's all
skill-based. This is something that
you're going to have to learn as well,
but you're at an advantage because you
love learning things. It's still going
to take time. I don't care how fast AGI
is going to speed up things. It still
takes time to get any form of result in
life. If you were to just get it
immediately, then it would become a
commodity and it would be the same thing
as you scrolling on your phone and it
wouldn't bring any meaning to your life.
So there are two paths that you can take
when doing this oneperson business thing
or if it helps just independent work or
creating your life's work. Path one is
skillbased. This is the typical way that
people have been telling you to start a
business for the longest time online,
right? pick a marketable skill and then
create a product or service around that
marketable skill and you talk about that
marketable skill online and then boom,
you make money, I guess. But the
limitation here is the limitation of
being a specialist. You probably don't
want to be put into a box. You don't
like feeling limited. But people do
this. They niche down because they were
told that was the most profitable thing
to do. And so now profit is your main
interest. That's where everything else
falls under. That's your incentive. So
now that you're chasing profit,
productivity is still your god and you
build yourself into a second nineto-5
working on things you don't care about
for people you don't care about. So
we're not going to talk about it beyond
that because that's not what we're here
for. So path number two is
developmentbased. And you can see this
when you go into the creator economy
right now. If you're watching me, you
probably watch other people that are on
this path. You can observe it. And these
people don't really have a niche that
they're pinned down to. Right? In one
video I talk about productivity. In this
video I'm talking about business. I
guess I don't even know what it's like a
combination of interests. The things
that I learned this week really or have
learned over time. It's a synthesis of
ideas with one overarching topic. Now
typically what these people do is they
focus on one of the four eternal markets
and let their interests fall under
those. The eternal markets where all
human problems tend to fall. So that's
where all human value tends to fall.
What's valuable is health, wealth,
relationships, and happiness. Or even
all of them, right? You can bundle all
of those things into the umbrella of
self-actualization. I personally believe
that most of the value creators online
right now, they all have one niche. It's
just a massive niche. It's
self-actualization. What makes it unique
is how you reach self-actualization or
even get close to it. You don't even
have to get there. It's just your aim.
It's what you're pursuing. It's what
you're helping other people do. You
document your journey there. You take
notes that are disguised as ideas. Every
single person that has the goal of
self-trcendence or self-actualization,
they're all taking infinitely unique
paths to get there. And that's what
matters. That's how you create a unique
path. Someone who learns a skill, sells
a marketable skill, there's usually very
little paths that you can take along
that path. So these types of creators,
they pursue their own goals which forms
their brand. They teach what they learn
which forms their content and they help
others achieve the goal faster which is
their product. And the other powerful
thing here is that when you take this
path, you're the the first path, the
skill-based path is encapsulated in it.
It's a natural part of it because you're
building your own business, right? You
have to learn all of these things. You
have to learn marketing, sales, brand,
content, all of the little strategies.
You need to study these things. And you
just become inherently valuable when you
can do that because you're learning the
things that actually gets results. Not
all business owners do this. Go and talk
to a small business and ask if they
understand any of this. They don't. So,
if you learn it, you become valuable
enough to be paid. And it may not be
from your multiple interests yet, but it
can be a stepping stone that leads you
into that. That's incredible. That's why
I love this path so much. And every time
I talk about this, I really have to sit
and ask myself, am I just like promoting
this dogma? I tell people, start a
personal brand, become a creator,
because it makes a lot of sense to me.
And I feel like I start to tout it as
this one true way, but then like the
more I break it down, the more it seems
like the one true way. I don't know how
to put it. Like I've heard objections to
it and those hold a lot of truth. like,
well, not everyone can do this. And my
answer to that is, well, anyone can. The
ambitious people who want to, everyone
can't do everything, right? Like,
there's so many things in life where uh
it's limited to the amount of people
that can do it. But this has more
opportunity than most of those things.
And it's all within your control. That's
what I love about it. Now, the other
thing that I love about it is that it
flips the traditional model on its head.
So that with so with the traditional
business model, you need a customer
avatar and you need to niche down to
that customer avatar. But with this
model, you are the customer avatar and
that makes things so much more
palatable. You don't need to understand
or learn that much because if you need
market research, you just look at your
story. You think back on your life. So
you pursue your goals in life and
develop yourself. And by doing that, you
have already validated the usefulness of
what you will offer. and then you help
the past version of yourself reach that
same goal. Now, one thing you're going
to have to deal with here is a lot of
the business gurus like Alex Hormoszi, I
I love Alex Hormosi, nothing against
them. They will tell you to sell to the
rich. So, you may not have been a rich
person in your past and that's okay.
That doesn't mean that this way doesn't
work. It's just an alternative route for
people who have that like deep desire to
do something more creative and spend a
lot of their time on what they deem
meaningful. Not to say that the other
way isn't meaningful. I think you're
getting the distinction here. So, it has
to be somewhat of a conscious choice,
but that also doesn't mean that you're
limited in any way to brag. I guess like
I've made a lot of freaking money doing
this. It's incredible. I never would
have thought that I would been able to
make this much money. I'm starting a
bigger business. Well, I've been working
on a software company for a long time
now. I'm working on a neutropic company.
More details on that. That is very cool.
But I wouldn't have had these
opportunities. It's just so cool. But
with that, I'm going to give a caveat.
Don't be a YouTube creator. Don't be a
personal brand. Even though I just said
that, don't be an influencer. Be you,
but in a place where your work can be
discovered, followed, and supported
right now and for the foreseeable
future. That's on the internet. So, if
we think of Jordan Peterson, regardless
of your opinion, he's not a content
creator. He goes on tours. He writes
books. He even has like Peterson Academy
which is a online very well done course.
But he leverages social media as his
base and he uses the tools available to
him to spread his life's work. He isn't
worried about the latest content or idea
trend because his own mind transcends
any of the growth strategies that you
can find. The quality and uniqueness and
how he says his ideas is what sets him
apart. So your business has to be a
reflection of this just uniqueness of
your mind. So how do we make that even
more practical? We need to actually talk
about the three pillars brand, content,
product. So idea five is that brand is
an environment. So I want you to stop
thinking as brand if you think about it
this way as like your social media
profile, right? Your bio and your
profile picture and your website and the
cool little brand colors that you have.
like mine are black and white simply
because it's easy and that allows me to
focus on the ideas. I want you to think
about brand as an environment where
people come to transform. Brand is the
little world you are inviting others
into. Brand isn't illustrated when a
reader first visits your profile. Brand
is the accumulation of ideas in your
reader's mind after 3 to 6 months of
following you. You illustrate your
worldview, story, and philosophy for
life across every single touch point.
your banner, profile picture, bio, link
in bio, landing page design, pinned
content, posts, threads, newsletters,
videos, and the rest. So, in other
words, your brand is this. Pause the
screen if you need to. Your brand is
your story. So, it would help if you
spent a day or even go on a walk and
just think about it and think about
where you came from. What is the lowest
point you've been? What are the other
lows that you've been? What have you
overcome? What is your actual story?
What skills have you learned? What
traits have you developed? What are some
of your weird and extreme beliefs? What
do you think that other people don't?
What are your contrarian takes? What
makes you different? Now, when you're
thinking of ideas or content or
products, you need to filter them
through your story or through your
worldview, which kind of comes naturally
once you stop trying to do it because
your worldview is your worldview. You
become a translator of ideas, right?
Because no idea is really original. We
we disguise stealing like an artist as
research, right? where I research ideas
that I really like and I learn about
them and then I kind of translate them.
I have a topic for my newsletter or for
my video and then I look at what other
people have said about that and I think
about the books that I've read or if I'm
reading a book now and then I pick and
choose ideas and kind of tie them into
something new and say them in my own
words and that alone is unique enough.
So when I say filter things through your
story, that doesn't mean that you have
to talk about yourself all the time. Of
course, personal stories or personal
anecdotes like I gave at the beginning
of this video when I said, "I used to
learn and learn and learn. I got stuck
in tutorial hell." That's a relatable
aspect of this, but that's not
necessarily what I mean. I mean
translating. Now, the difficult part for
a lot of people, and this was myself
included, is that you don't really think
your story is worth telling because you
think it's boring or you haven't
reflected on your growth. But it is, and
you'll come to realize that. So now the
point with everything that I'm saying is
that your bio and your profile picture
and your website colors, they do not
matter at all. If you go on any social
media, you're going to see people with
profile pictures that are just like
weird scribbles or a singular color like
blue or red. You're going to go to Paul
Graham's website and you're going to see
that he just has an HTML website and the
formatting doesn't look good at all. His
essays that everyone loves are literally
just like the most basic aerial text
you'll find ever. It does not matter.
The quality of ideas and unique
perspective is what matters. So my
recommendation for branding or at least
to start thinking about your brand is to
make a list of 5 to 10 people you
respect online. These are the people
that are kind of aspirational, the
people you want to become like. Then you
look at their profile picture, their bio
and content. Then you take mental notes
of patterns between them. And then you
start formulating what you should do for
your own brand with your own little
spin. Now, in all honesty, I wouldn't
over complicate this or I wouldn't even
really think about it until now. It's
just going to come naturally. Don't even
worry about your brand because a lot of
people get stuck on that when I teach
this and I used to teach it in workshops
and other things. People just would put
off doing anything else until they got
their brand right when it really does
not matter because that's not what a
brand is. A brand is what you associate
yourself with, the ideas you post over
time, the people you talk to, the
podcasts you go on. It's like this
accumulation. It's just how people view
you. And if you break down how people
come to view you, then you understand
it. Now, before we get into content, I
have written an article on this. I'll
link it in the description. It's called
how to build a world, the 2-hour content
ecosystem expanded. So, that'll help you
understand how brand is a world created
through this content ecosystem. We're
not going to actually talk about how to
write a newsletter and break that down
into smaller pieces of content like I do
in that. But that leads into number six,
which is content is novel perspectives.
Now, I've said this for a while now, but
it's more prevalent than it will be ever
because the internet is just continuing
to become more and more of a fire hose
of information, and AI isn't helping
with that, right? Anyone can generate
anything. But what that means is that
trust and signal are more important than
ever. If you hear me say signal, that
means like the opposite of noise, right?
Noisy. A lot of content signal is like,
ooh, exciting, important. Need to pay
attention to that. So, in my opinion,
the guiding light for your content
should be to curate the best possible
ideas in one place. Your brand is a
collection of all the ideas you care
about in your own words under one
account on the internet. Now, if you
have any plans to do podcasts or public
speaking, when you look at the best
podcasters or public speakers, you see
that they if you watch multiple of their
podcasts, you see that they're kind of
just repeating the same five to 10 ideas
and they're just exposing their best
ideas to new audiences. That's all
they're really doing. They've refined
their ideas enough to know that these
are the ones that are the most
impactful. So what you have to do is you
have to experiment and try until you
have those 5 to 10 ideas and then you
have to turn those 5 to 10 ideas into
each a thousand ideas which we'll talk
about. Now, I really think a metric to
aim for in your content is idea density,
which means that the amount of high
signal or really good ideas is just
everywhere. And that slowly increases
over time with time and effort. And
that's what creates a brand that's worth
following and paying for because you
just hit the mark all the time. So, the
goal of curating ideas to include under
your brand should fall at the
intersection of one performance, which
is ideas that have the potential to do
well. And this is a measure of how much
other people will care. And two,
excitement, which is the ideas that give
you a sense of excitement to write about
them. This is a measure of how much you
care. So, it's a balance when choosing
what ideas to post. It's a balance of
art and business. Are other people going
to care about this? Has this done well
before or do I have a good hook? Do I
have other things? And what you care
about? So, it's not blatantly copying
what works. It's doing something unique,
but also taking into the account the
principles that are actually going to
capture attention. So how do we do this?
Step one is to build an idea museum.
This can this is the most useful thing.
In other words, this just means build a
swipe file is what marketers call it. So
this can be a document. It can be a
folder in Eden or notion or Google Docs.
If you don't have access to Eden yet,
join the wait list. We're releasing the
next cohort round soon. If you don't
know what it is, it's an intelligent
drive. You can store all of your files,
PDFs, videos, etc. You can search all of
those things by frame. You can paste
YouTube links, social media links, it
transcribes, downloads the video, makes
it all referenceable with AI. So you can
put it inside a canvas or project and it
brings this unique way of working. It's
a workspace for your creative work and
it allows you to replace things like
Google Drive or uh certain AI apps like
Claude or ChatgPT and even things like
Frame for video editors if you need to
share videos, comment on them, so on and
so forth. But the point is that you need
somewhere to jot down ideas as soon as
they come to mind. This is a critical
habit. So, when other people teach you
how to create content, and I've done
this in the past, I'll actually link to
another thing called the content map,
which helps you figure all of this out
and creates like a web of content ideas
that you can write about. But people
have you focus on like two to three
content pillars, maybe even one, and
then you break those down into topics
and subtopics and other things of that
nature. That's very useful. But if you
want to avoid all of that, just focus on
the ideas that are important to you and
share those. That's it. That's your
entire content strategy. Now, step two
is to curate based on idea density. So,
how do you actually start filling this
idea museum? Do you just scroll around?
Do you just think of ideas? What do you
do? The best way, in my opinion, is to
have three to five sources of
information that have high idea density.
So, what that means is just have three
to five sources of information where
when you go to them, you consistently
think, damn, I wish I wrote that. And
you have to do this without judgment
because something that you think has
been said over and over again to the
point where it doesn't matter anymore or
something you think is too basic or that
everyone knows this. Avoid letting any
of those cloud your mind. Just jot down
the idea and then you're going to
reframe it. Post it. So the most ide
sources of information in my opinion
isn't just scrolling social media. It's
things like old or little known books.
So, as an example, I have five books
that I reread over and over again
because the ideas are just so good.
These are where the timeless principles
live. They're untouched by trends. A
second place is curated blogs, accounts,
or books. So, these are like accounts
that are doing the same thing as you
kind of sort of not really, but these
are blogs like Farnum Street, which
curate the best ideas for modern
intellectuals. accounts like Navalism
which curate Naval's best ideas or books
like the Maxwell Daily Reader which has
Maxwell's best ideas one day at a time
for a year and sources like these do a
lot of the heavy lifting for you because
you're just being exposed to like all of
these incredible validated ideas. Of
course, you should discover some on your
own, like when you're watching a YouTube
video and you spot something in the
middle of a video and be like, "Oh,
that's good." Or while you're scrolling
social media, but if you struggle to
come up with ideas, go that route. Now,
the third place is just heavy-hitting
social accounts. So, I personally have a
list of maybe five social accounts that
always post great ideas. If I don't have
something to write about, I'll scroll
through their page for inspiration and
find something that I have an opinion on
and then I'll write about that. Now,
step three is to learn how to write one
idea 1,000 different ways because that's
all this game is. It's you have your
five to 10 maybe 20 best ideas and then
you just rewrite those over and over
again from all different angles. And
that's even more effective now than it
was before because AI can generate all
information, right? People are following
you because you don't have all
information. You have a very niche, even
though it's not really niche when you're
talking about a bunch of different
things. It's niche in spirit compared to
AI. Because becoming a good writer or
speaker isn't only about the idea, but
how you articulate the idea. The idea
does a lot of the heavy lifting, but the
structure of the idea, how it's
articulated does even more. So to show
you what I mean, just take this post
structure. This is a post I wrote
before. One pattern I've noticed in
happy people, they're obsessed about
maintaining their mental clarity. So the
idea here is that happy people maintain
their mental clarity. The structure is
formatted in two parts. a hook in the
form of an observation and the delivery
of what the observation is. So it seems
simple but one idea with two different
structures can drastically change how
the idea does. So ideas are cheap but
articulation of the ideas is expensive
and you need to learn how to articulate
them well. As an example of another
structure, let's take the same idea.
Happy people are obsessed with
maintaining their mental clarity. So it
would look like this. Happy people are
clear-minded people. They take time for
rest. They focus on one singular goal.
They ruthlessly eliminate distractions.
In other words, happy people are
obsessive about maintaining their mental
clarity. It's the same idea, a different
structure, and a different impact. The
first one is probably going to do a bit
better. That doesn't mean the second one
is bad. It just shows that this is a
skill. So, what I recommend is every
idea you come across for now as you're
practicing, write it in a few different
ways and post them in that way. those
two posts that I showed you, practically
the same thing, but they're distinctly
different posts. So, when you come
across an idea, you add it to your idea
museum or just take it down in your
notes and then you turn it into a
different structure. But how do you
actually do that? Okay, you go to your
idea museum and you look at all of the
ideas in there and then you break down
the structures of those things and you
start to create a second idea museum of
structures that you can use. So you
practice this by the first three ideas
that you mark down, you break down the
structure of how those things work and
then you kind of interchange them,
right? Like a 3x3 matrix. So you take
idea one, plug it into idea 3 structure
and you practice writing like that. Now
what I recommend here is just employing
AI for help. AI is very good at helping
you learn how to do this. It's not very
good at writing for you. And again,
we'll talk about that in the next video.
But you can use this prompt, which is do
a comprehensive analysis on this social
post. The overall idea, how the
sentences are structured, and choice of
words, analyze why people engage with
it, why it works so well, what
psychological tactics are being used,
and how I can replicate this style step
by step with my own ideas. So, you paste
the prompt, you use something like
Claude, and then you can either paste
one post or maybe one newsletter or
multiple posts into it, and it's going
to create like a little miniourse on why
those worked and how to replicate it.
And then you take another idea, and then
you practice. And seriously, those are
all of my secrets for content.
Congratulations. You just went through
an entire course on content creation.
That's all you need. But of course,
there's also the skill of how to grow
without relying on the algorithm. So,
watch the last video if you haven't
already, which is how to build an
audience starting from zero followers.
This just the last video. Now, this
video is getting long, so we're going to
speed things up a bit. But idea number
seven is that systems are the new
product. And I'm also speeding this up
because I'm linking an entire guide to
how I create profitable products. And
that goes over it much more in depth
than I want to do here. But at this
point in time, we are in a systems
economy. People don't want a solution to
their problems. They want your solution
to their problems. There are tons of
writing products out there. So, what
makes my product to our writer stand
out? Or even Eden, what makes the
software that's going to compete with
Google Drive that there was a comment in
the YouTube video on Matt and Ari, the
co-founder's channel saying that we have
no competitive edge, but I don't think
they use Eden and they definitely don't
understand where we're going. Nobody
understands that. That's in our head.
And we could easily get replaced or made
irrelevant by Google. But the difference
is that these are hypersp specific
systems that I made for myself. The
deeper layer to that is that these are
hyperspecific systems that I made for
people with the same problems as me. And
no big conglomerate corporation is going
to pay attention to as much detail and
effectiveness as I am going to or my
team is going to for the specific type
of person that can benefit from a more
specific system. With Eden, we're kind
of towing the line there, right? It is
more general. We're trying to
encapsulate more. But at the end of the
day, it's for creatives. It's for
creators who have ideas, want to
synthesize them, want to resurface them
when they need to, need to connect them,
need to work with them in a project, and
not have 10 browser tabs open for all of
your different research and your books
and your AI apps and everything like
that. I mean, Google can't do that
because Docs, Slides, Sheets, all of
that is isolated. It by necessity, it's
in different tabs. and Google Drive
frankly just has a terrible UX. So for
two-hour writer specifically, this all
starts with identifying and solving
problems in your life in a unique way.
So I had trouble having an endless
source of content ideas. I just
struggled to come up with content ideas.
And two, I didn't want to waste a ton of
time creating content for all different
platforms. So that's why I started
experimenting with different systems.
And my goal was pretty clear. I wanted
to write all of my content in 2 hours a
day. So I had a constraint and that bred
creativity. So, I started testing
solutions for more content ideas. I
created swipe files, steps to generate
ideas that work for me, and templates to
use if I still couldn't think of
anything. And then I looked over my
week. This is a very useful practice if
you're going to create a product is how
does an individual's week look, right?
What did I want to do? How was I going
to create content? One newsletter a week
seems reasonable. Three posts a day, at
least on something like Twitter, seemed
reasonable. One thread a week seemed
reasonable. Okay, do all of these things
have to be unique content? Do can I talk
about one theme per week? Can I write
the newsletter and then pull social
media posts from that? So on so forth.
And so I started testing that. And when
you start testing something that you
created on like a week-l long time
scale, then you start to encounter
problems and then you fix those problems
to improve the system and then things
start to flow. So doing this, I realized
that I could cross-ost just every
platform, right? Most people won't even
try that because they think that people
will get mad that they're repeating
themselves. But frankly, I haven't
noticed anything. Maybe like one person
is like, "Why are you repeating the same
content on all platforms?" But they
still do well because people are usually
just consuming it on one platform. So
why would I waste my time to spread my
ideas thin and try to create something
new for each platform that would result
in a decrease in quality rather than
focus on less content with higher
quality ideas and do those once a week?
and my hypothesis was correct. That's
literally the foundation of everything
that I've done. And then from there, I
realized, okay, my newsletter can go
onto my blog just so people can access
it if they weren't on the email list.
And then it can turn into a YouTube
outline. And it's like the YouTube video
can also go into the podcast. I
literally have all platforms on one
piece of content a week that's broken
down into the rest. So, in a nutshell,
and without going too deep into it,
that's how you stand out in a world of
products. So, thank you for watching
this far. I deeply appreciate it. As I
said, all of the links mentioned are in
the description. Subscribe for the next
video on the future of work and watch
the last video if you'd like to learn
how to actually build an audience
without relying on the algorithm. Like,
subscribe before you leave. Again, thank
you for watching. Bye.